



Food preservation - Wikipedia



































Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file



















Search











Search





























Create account

Log in








Personal tools





 Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1Traditional techniques



Toggle Traditional techniques subsection





1.1Boiling







1.2Burial







1.3Canning







1.4Confit







1.5Cooling







1.6Curing







1.7Fermentation







1.8Freezing







1.9Heating







1.10Jellying







1.11Kangina







1.12Jugging







1.13Lye







1.14Pickling







1.15Sugaring









2Modern industrial techniques



Toggle Modern industrial techniques subsection





2.1Aseptic processing







2.2Pasteurization







2.3Vacuum packing







2.4Freeze drying







2.5Preservatives







2.6Irradiation







2.7Pulsed electric field electroporation







2.8Modified atmosphere







2.9Nonthermal plasma







2.10High-pressure food preservation







2.11Biopreservation







2.12Hurdle technology









3See also







4Notes







5Sources







6References







7Further reading







8External links

















Toggle the table of contents







Food preservation



56 languages




العربيةAzərbaycancaবাংলাБеларускаяČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGaeilgeGalegoગુજરાતી한국어हिन्दीBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaಕನ್ನಡҚазақшаКыргызчаMagyarമലയാളംBahasa MelayuNederlandsनेपाली日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskਪੰਜਾਬੀپښتوPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்ไทยУкраїнськаVènetoTiếng Việt粵語中文

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadView sourceView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadView sourceView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikimedia Commons


























From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Inhibition of microbial growth in food


A food scientist is preparing a meal for astronauts in space.
Food preservation includes processes that make food more resistant to microorganism growth and slow the oxidation of fats. This slows down the decomposition and rancidification process. Food preservation may also include processes that inhibit visual deterioration, such as the enzymatic browning reaction in apples after they are cut during food preparation. By preserving food, food waste can be reduced, which is an important way to decrease production costs and increase the efficiency of food systems, improve food security and nutrition and contribute towards environmental sustainability.[1] For instance, it can reduce the environmental impact of food production.[2]
Many processes designed to preserve food involve more than one food preservation method. Preserving fruit by turning it into jam, for example, involves boiling (to reduce the fruit's moisture content and to kill bacteria, etc.), sugaring (to prevent their re-growth) and sealing within an airtight jar (to prevent recontamination).
Different food preservation methods have different impacts on the quality of the food and food systems. Some traditional methods of preserving food have been shown to have a lower energy input and carbon footprint compared to modern methods.[3][2] Some methods of food preservation are also known to create carcinogens.


Traditional techniques
Some techniques of food preservation pre-date the dawn of agriculture. Others were discovered more recently.

Boiling
Main article: Boiling
See also: Pasteurisation
Boiling liquids can kill any existing microbes. Milk and water are often boiled to kill any harmful microbes that may be present in them.

Burial
Burial of food can preserve it due to a variety of factors: lack of light, lack of oxygen, cool temperatures, pH level, or desiccants in the soil. Burial may be combined with other methods such as salting or fermentation. Most foods can be preserved in soil that is very dry and salty (thus a desiccant) such as sand, or soil that is frozen.
Many root vegetables are very resistant to spoilage and require no other preservation than storage in cool dark conditions, for example by burial in the ground, such as in a storage clamp (not to be confused with a root cellar). Cabbage was traditionally buried during autumn in northern US farms for preservation. Some methods keep it crispy while other methods produce sauerkraut. A similar process is used in the traditional production of kimchi.
Sometimes meat is buried under conditions that cause preservation. If buried on hot coals or ashes, the heat can kill pathogens, the dry ash can desiccate, and the earth can block oxygen and further contamination. If buried where the earth is very cold, the earth acts like a refrigerator, or, in areas of permafrost, a freezer.
In Orissa, India, it is practical to store rice by burying it underground. This method helps to store for three to six months during the dry season.
Butter and similar substances have been preserved as bog butter in Irish peat bogs for centuries. Century eggs are traditionally created by placing eggs in alkaline mud (or other alkaline substance), resulting in their "inorganic" fermentation through raised pH instead of spoiling. The fermentation preserves them and breaks down some of the complex, less flavorful proteins and fats into simpler, more flavorful ones.

Canning
Preserved food
Main article: Canning
See also: Home canning
Canning involves cooking food, sealing it in sterilized cans or jars, and boiling the containers to kill or weaken any remaining bacteria as a form of sterilization. It was invented by the French confectioner Nicolas Appert.[4] By 1806, this process was used by the French Navy to preserve meat, fruit, vegetables, and even milk.  Although Appert had discovered a new way of preservation, it was not understood until 1864 when Louis Pasteur found the relationship between microorganisms, food spoilage, and illness.[5]
Foods have varying degrees of natural protection against spoilage and may require that the final step occurs in a pressure cooker. High-acid fruits like strawberries require no preservatives to can and only a short boiling cycle, whereas marginal vegetables such as carrots require longer boiling and the addition of other acidic elements. Low-acid foods, such as vegetables and meats, require pressure canning. Food preserved by canning or bottling is at immediate risk of spoilage once the can or bottle has been opened.
Lack of quality control in the canning process may allow ingress of water or micro-organisms. Most such failures are rapidly detected as decomposition within the can cause gas production and the can will swell or burst. However, there have been examples of poor manufacture (underprocessing) and poor hygiene allowing contamination of canned food by the obligate anaerobe Clostridium botulinum, which produces an acute toxin within the food, leading to severe illness or death. This organism produces no gas or obvious taste and remains undetected by taste or smell. Its toxin is denatured by cooking, however. Cooked mushrooms, when handled poorly and then canned, can support the growth of Staphylococcus aureus, which produces a toxin that is not destroyed by canning or subsequent reheating.

Confit
Main article: Confit
Meat can be preserved by salting it, cooking it at or near 100 °C (212 °F) in some kind of fat (such as lard or tallow), and then storing it immersed in the fat. These preparations were popular in Europe before refrigerators became ubiquitous.  They are still popular in France, where the term originates.[6][7] The preparation will keep longer if stored in a cold cellar or buried in cold ground.

Cooling
Main article: Refrigeration
Cooling preserves food by slowing down the growth and reproduction of microorganisms and the action of enzymes that causes the food to rot. The introduction of commercial and domestic refrigerators drastically improved the diets of many in the Western world by allowing food such as fresh fruit, salads and dairy products to be stored safely for longer periods, particularly during warm weather.
Before the era of mechanical refrigeration, cooling for food storage occurred in the forms of root cellars and iceboxes. Rural people often did their own ice cutting, whereas town and city dwellers often relied on the ice trade. Today, root cellaring remains popular among people who value various goals, including local food, heirloom crops, traditional home cooking techniques, family farming, frugality, self-sufficiency, organic farming, and others.

Curing
Bag of Prague powder#1, also known as "curing salt" or "pink salt". It is typically a combination of salt and sodium nitrite, with the pink color added to distinguish it from ordinary salt.
Main article: Curing (food preservation)
The earliest form of curing was dehydration or drying, used as early as 12,000 BC. Smoking and salting techniques improve on the drying process and add antimicrobial agents that aid in preservation. Smoke deposits a number of pyrolysis products onto the food, including the phenols syringol, guaiacol and catechol.[8] Salt accelerates the drying process using osmosis and also inhibits the growth of several common strains of bacteria. More recently nitrites have been used to cure meat, contributing a characteristic pink colour.[9]
In 2015, the International Agency for Research on Cancer of the World Health Organization classified processed meat—i.e., meat that has undergone salting, curing, and smoking—as "carcinogenic to humans".[10][11][12]

Fermentation
Main article: Fermentation (food)
Some foods, such as many cheeses, wines, and beers, use specific micro-organisms that combat spoilage from other less-benign organisms. These micro-organisms keep pathogens in check by creating an environment toxic for themselves and other micro-organisms by producing acid or alcohol. Methods of fermentation include, but are not limited to, starter micro-organisms, salt, hops, controlled (usually cool) temperatures and controlled (usually low) levels of oxygen. These methods are used to create the specific controlled conditions that will support the desirable organisms that produce food fit for human consumption.
Fermentation is the microbial conversion of starch and sugars into alcohol. Not only can fermentation produce alcohol, but it can also be a valuable preservation technique. Fermentation can also make foods more nutritious and palatable. For example, drinking water in the Middle Ages was dangerous because it often contained pathogens that could spread disease. When the water is made into beer, the boiling during the brewing process kills any bacteria in the water that could make people sick. Additionally, the water now has the nutrients from the barley and other ingredients, and the microorganisms can also produce vitamins as they ferment.[5]

Freezing
Main article: Frozen food
Freezing is also one of the most commonly used processes, both commercially and domestically, for preserving a very wide range of foods, including prepared foods that would not have required freezing in their unprepared state. For example, potato waffles are stored in the freezer, but potatoes themselves require only a cool dark place to ensure many months' storage. Cold stores provide large-volume, long-term storage for strategic food stocks held in case of national emergency in many countries.

Heating
Heating to temperatures which are sufficient to kill microorganisms inside the food is a method used with perpetual stews.

Jellying
Main article: Aspic
See also: Fruit preserves and Confit
Food may be preserved by cooking in a material that solidifies to form a gel. Such materials include gelatin, agar, maize flour, and arrowroot flour.
Some animal flesh forms a protein gel when cooked. Eels and elvers, and sipunculid worms, are a delicacy in Xiamen, China, as are jellied eels in the East End of London, where they are eaten with mashed potatoes. British cuisine has a rich tradition of potted meats. Meat off-cuts were, until the 1950s, preserved in aspic, a gel made from gelatin and clarified meat broth. Another form of preservation is setting the cooked food in a container and covering it with a layer of fat. Potted chicken liver can be prepared in this way, and so can potted shrimps, to be served on toast. Calf's foot jelly used to be prepared for invalids.
Jellying is one of the steps in producing traditional pâtés. Many jugged meats (see below) are also jellied.
Another type of jellying is fruit preserves, which are preparations of cooked fruits, vegetables and sugar, often stored in glass jam jars and Mason jars. Many varieties of fruit preserves are made globally, including sweet fruit preserves, such as those made from strawberry or apricot, and savory preserves, such as those made from tomatoes or squash. The ingredients used and how they are prepared determine the type of preserves; jams, jellies, and marmalades are all examples of different styles of fruit preserves that vary based upon the fruit used. In English, the word preserves, in plural form, is used to describe all types of jams and jellies.

Kangina
Main article: Kangina
In rural Afghanistan, grapes are preserved in disc-shaped vessels made of mud and straw, called kangina. The vessels, which can preserve fresh grapes for up to 6 months, passively control their internal environments to restrict gas exchange and water loss, prolonging the lives of late-harvested grapes stored within them.[13]

Jugging
Main article: Jugging
Meat can be preserved by jugging. Jugging is the process of stewing the meat (commonly game or fish) in a covered earthenware jug or casserole. The animal to be jugged is usually cut into pieces, placed into a tightly sealed jug with brine or gravy, and stewed. Red wine and/or the animal's own blood is sometimes added to the cooking liquid. Jugging was a popular method of preserving meat up until the middle of the 20th century.

Lye
Main article: Sodium hydroxide § Food preparation
Sodium hydroxide (lye) makes food too alkaline for bacterial growth. Lye will saponify fats in the food, which will change its flavor and texture. Lutefisk uses lye in its preparation, as do some olive recipes. Modern recipes for century eggs also call for lye.

Pickling
Main article: Pickling
Pickling is a method of preserving food in an edible, antimicrobial liquid. Pickling can be broadly classified into two categories: chemical pickling and fermentation pickling.
In chemical pickling, the food is placed in an edible liquid that inhibits or kills bacteria and other microorganisms. Typical pickling agents include brine (high in salt), vinegar, alcohol, and vegetable oil. Many chemical pickling processes also involve heating or boiling so that the food being preserved becomes saturated with the pickling agent. Common chemically pickled foods include cucumbers, peppers, corned beef, herring, and eggs, as well as mixed vegetables such as piccalilli.
In fermentation pickling, bacteria in the liquid produce organic acids as preservation agents, typically by a process that produces lactic acid through the presence of lactobacillales. Fermented pickles include sauerkraut, nukazuke, kimchi, and surströmming.

Sugaring
Main article: Sugaring
The earliest cultures have used sugar as a preservative, and it was commonplace to store fruit in honey. Similar to pickled foods, sugar cane was brought to Europe through the trade routes.[citation needed] In northern climates without sufficient sun to dry foods, preserves are made by heating the fruit with sugar.[5] "Sugar tends to draw water from the microbes (plasmolysis). This process leaves the microbial cells dehydrated, thus killing them.  In this way, the food will remain safe from microbial spoilage."[8] Sugar is used to preserve fruits, either in an antimicrobial syrup with fruit such as apples, pears, peaches, apricots, and plums, or in crystallized form where the preserved material is cooked in sugar to the point of crystallization and the resultant product is then stored dry. This method is used for the skins of citrus fruit (candied peel), angelica, and ginger. Sugaring can be used in the production of jam and jelly.

Modern industrial techniques
Techniques of food preservation were developed in research laboratories for commercial applications.

Aseptic processing
Main article: Aseptic processing
Aseptic processing works by placing sterilized food (typically by heat, see ultra-high temperature processing) into sterlized packaging material under sterile conditions. The result is a sealed, sterile food product similar to canned food, but depending on the technique used, damage to food quality is typically reduced compared to canned food. A greater variety of packaging materials can be used as well.
Besides UHT, aseptic processing may be used in conjunction with any of the microbe-reduction technologies listed below. With pasturization and "high pressure pasturization", the food may not be completely sterilized (instead achieving a specified log reduction), but the use of sterile packaging and environments is retained.

Pasteurization
Main article: Pasteurization
Pasteurization is a process for preservation of liquid food. It was originally applied to combat the souring of young local wines. Today, the process is mainly applied to dairy products. In this method, milk is heated at about 70 °C (158 °F) for 15–30 seconds to kill the bacteria present in it and cooling it quickly to 10 °C (50 °F) to prevent the remaining bacteria from growing. The milk is then stored in sterilized bottles or pouches in cold places. This method was invented by Louis Pasteur, a French chemist, in 1862.

Vacuum packing
Main article: Vacuum packing
Vacuum-packing stores food in a vacuum environment, usually in an air-tight bag or bottle. The vacuum environment strips bacteria of oxygen needed for survival. Vacuum-packing is commonly used for storing nuts to reduce loss of flavor from oxidization. A major drawback to vacuum packaging, at the consumer level, is that vacuum sealing can deform contents and rob certain foods, such as cheese, of its flavor.

Freeze drying
These paragraphs are an excerpt from Freeze drying.[edit]
Freeze drying, also known as lyophilization or cryodesiccation, is a low temperature dehydration process[14] that involves freezing the product and lowering pressure, thereby removing the ice by sublimation.[15] This is in contrast to dehydration by most conventional methods that evaporate water using heat.[16]

Because of the low temperature used in processing,[14] the rehydrated product retains much of its original qualities. When solid objects like strawberries are freeze dried the original shape of the product is maintained.[17] If the product to be dried is a liquid, as often seen in pharmaceutical applications, the properties of the final product are optimized by the combination of excipients (i.e., inactive ingredients). Primary applications of freeze drying include biological (e.g., bacteria and yeasts), biomedical (e.g., surgical transplants), food processing (e.g., coffee), and preservation.[14]
Preservatives
Main articles: Preservatives and Sulfite food and beverage additives
Preservative food additives can be antimicrobial – which inhibit the growth of bacteria or fungi, including mold – or antioxidant, such as oxygen absorbers, which inhibit the oxidation of food constituents. Common antimicrobial preservatives include nisin, sorbates, calcium propionate, sodium nitrate/nitrite, sulfites (sulfur dioxide, sodium bisulfite, potassium hydrogen sulfite, etc.), EDTA, hinokitiol, and ε-polylysine. Antioxidants include tocopherols (Vitamin E), butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT). Other preservatives include ethanol.
There is also another approach of impregnating packaging materials (plastic films or other) with antioxidants and antimicrobials.[18][19]

Irradiation
Main article: Food irradiation
Irradiation of food[20] is the exposure of food to ionizing radiation. Multiple types of ionizing radiation can be used, including beta particles (high-energy electrons) and gamma rays (emitted from radioactive sources such as cobalt-60 or cesium-137). Irradiation can kill bacteria, molds, and insect pests, reduce the ripening and spoiling of fruits, and at higher doses induce sterility. The technology may be compared to pasteurization; it is sometimes called "cold pasteurization", as the product is not heated. Irradiation may allow lower-quality or contaminated foods to be rendered marketable.
National and international expert bodies have declared food irradiation as "wholesome"; organizations of the United Nations, such as the World Health Organization and Food and Agriculture Organization, endorse food irradiation.[21][22] Consumers may have a negative view of irradiated food based on the misconception that such food is radioactive;[23] in fact, irradiated food does not and cannot become radioactive. Activists have also opposed food irradiation for other reasons, for example, arguing that irradiation can be used to sterilize contaminated food without resolving the underlying cause of the contamination.[24] International legislation on whether food may be irradiated or not varies worldwide from no regulation to a full ban.[25]
Approximately 500,000 tons of food items are irradiated per year worldwide in over 40 countries. These are mainly spices and condiments, with an increasing segment of fresh fruit irradiated for fruit fly quarantine.[26][27]

Pulsed electric field electroporation
Main article: Electroporation
Pulsed electric field (PEF) electroporation is a method for processing cells by means of brief pulses of a strong electric field. PEF holds potential as a type of low-temperature alternative pasteurization process for sterilizing food products. In PEF processing, a substance is placed between two electrodes, then the pulsed electric field is applied. The electric field enlarges the pores of the cell membranes, which kills the cells and releases their contents. PEF for food processing is a developing technology still being researched. There have been limited industrial applications of PEF processing for the pasteurization of fruit juices. To date, several PEF treated juices are available on the market in Europe. Furthermore, for several years a juice pasteurization application in the US has used PEF. For cell disintegration purposes especially potato processors show great interest in PEF technology as an efficient alternative for their preheaters. Potato applications are already operational in the US and Canada. There are also commercial PEF potato applications in various countries in Europe, as well as in Australia, India, and China.

Modified atmosphere
Main article: Modified atmosphere
Modifying atmosphere is a way to preserve food by operating on the atmosphere around it. It is often used to package:

Fresh fruits and vegetables, especially salds crops, which contain living cells that respire even while refrigerated. Reducing oxygen (O2) concentration and increasing the carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration slows down their respiration, conserves stored energy, and therefore increases shelf life.[28] High humidity is also used to reduce water loss.[29]
Red meat, which needs high O2 to reduce oxidation of myoglobin and maintain an attractive bright red color of the meat.[30]
Other meat and fish, which uses higher CO2 to reduce oxidation and slow down some microbes.[31]
Nonthermal plasma
Main article: Nonthermal plasma
This process subjects the surface of food to a "flame" of ionized gas molecules, such as helium or nitrogen. This causes micro-organisms to die off on the surface.[32]

High-pressure food preservation
Main article: Pascalization
High pressure can be used to disable harmful microorganisms and spoilage enzymes while retaining the food's fresh appearance, flavor, texture and nutrients.  By 2005, the process was being used for products ranging from orange juice to guacamole to deli meats and widely sold.[33] Depending on temperature and pressure settings, HP processing can achieve either pasteurization-equivalent log reduction or go all the way to achieve sterilization of all microbes.[34]

Biopreservation
3D stick model of nisin. Some lactic acid bacteria manufacture nisin. It is a particularly effective preservative.
Main article: Biopreservation
Biopreservation is the use of natural or controlled microbiota or antimicrobials as a way of preserving food and extending its shelf life.[35] Beneficial bacteria or the fermentation products produced by these bacteria are used in biopreservation to control spoilage and render pathogens inactive in food.[36] It is a benign ecological approach which is gaining increasing attention.[35]
Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) have antagonistic properties that make them particularly useful as biopreservatives. When LABs compete for nutrients, their metabolites often include active antimicrobials such as lactic acid, acetic acid, hydrogen peroxide, and peptide bacteriocins. Some LABs produce the antimicrobial nisin, which is a particularly effective preservative.[37][38]
LAB bacteriocins are used in the present day as an integral part of hurdle technology. Using them in combination with other preservative techniques can effectively control spoilage bacteria and other pathogens, and can inhibit the activities of a wide spectrum of organisms, including inherently resistant Gram-negative bacteria.[35]

Hurdle technology
Main article: Hurdle technology
Hurdle technology is a method of ensuring that pathogens in food products can be eliminated or controlled by combining more than one approach. These approaches can be thought of as "hurdles" the pathogen has to overcome if it is to remain active in the food. The right combination of hurdles can ensure all pathogens are eliminated or rendered harmless in the final product.[39]
Hurdle technology has been defined by Leistner (2000) as an intelligent combination of hurdles that secures the microbial safety and stability as well as the organoleptic and nutritional quality and the economic viability of food products.[40] The organoleptic quality of the food refers to its sensory properties, that is its look, taste, smell, and texture.
Examples of hurdles in a food system are high temperature during processing, low temperature during storage, increasing the acidity, lowering the water activity or redox potential, and the presence of preservatives or biopreservatives. According to the type of pathogens and how risky they are, the intensity of the hurdles can be adjusted individually to meet consumer preferences in an economical way, without sacrificing the safety of the product.[39]


Principal hurdles used for food preservation (after Leistner, 1995)[41][42]


Parameter

Symbol

Application


High temperature

F

Heating


Low temperature

T

Chilling, freezing


Reduced water activity

aw

Drying, curing, conserving


Increased acidity

pH

Acid addition or formation


Reduced redox potential

Eh

Removal of oxygen or addition of ascorbate


Biopreservatives



Competitive flora such as microbial fermentation


Other preservatives



Sorbates, sulfites, nitrites

See also

Food portal

Blast chilling
Food engineering
Food microbiology
Food packaging
Food rheology
Food science
Food spoilage
Freeze-drying
Fresherized
List of dried foods
List of pickled foods
List of smoked foods
Shelf life

Notes


^ The State of Food and Agriculture 2019. Moving forward on food loss and waste reduction, In brief. Rome: FAO. 2021. p. 8. doi:10.4060/ca9825fr. ISBN 978-92-5-134306-7.

^ a b "Good food for a better future". Sustainable Development Goals Fund. 11 March 2016. Retrieved 3 November 2020.

^ Fields of Farmers by Joel Salatin | Chelsea Green Publishing. Retrieved 3 November 2020.

^ Nicolas Appert inventeur et humaniste by Jean-Paul Barbier, Paris, 1994 and http://www.appert-aina.com

^ a b c Nummer, B. (2002). "Historical Origins of Food Preservation" http://nchfp.uga.edu/publications/nchfp/factsheets/food_pres_hist.html Archived 3 January 2018 at the Wayback Machine. (Accessed on 5 May 2014)

^ Bruce Aidells (2012): The Great Meat Cookbook, page 429. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt; 632 pages. ISBN 9780547241418

^ Susan Jung (2012): "Truc: confit, a fat-fabulous way to preserve meat". Post Magazine, online article, posted on 2012-11-03, accessed 2019-02-21.

^ a b Msagati, T. (2012). "The Chemistry of Food Additives and Preservatives"

^ Nummer, Brian; Andress, Elizabeth (June 2015). "Curing and Smoking Meats for Home Food Preservation". National Center for Home Food Preservation. Archived from the original on 24 January 2018. Retrieved 30 May 2017.

^ Stacy Simon (26 October 2015). "World Health Organization Says Processed Meat Causes Cancer". Cancer.org. Archived from the original on 7 January 2017. Retrieved 14 January 2016.

^ James Gallagher (26 October 2015). "Processed meats do cause cancer – WHO". BBC.

^ "IARC Monographs evaluate consumption of red meat and processed meat" (PDF). International Agency for Research on Cancer. 26 October 2015.

^ Glinski, Stefanie (25 March 2021). "The Ancient Method That Keeps Afghanistan's Grapes Fresh All Winter". Atlas Obscura. Retrieved 6 December 2023.

^ a b c Ratti, Cristina (21 November 2008). Advances in Food Dehydration. CRC Press. pp. 209–235. ISBN 9781420052534.

^ Fellows, P. (Peter) (2017). "Freeze drying and freeze concentration". Food processing technology : principles and practice (4th ed.). Kent: Woodhead Publishing/Elsevier Science. pp. 929–940. ISBN 978-0081005231. OCLC 960758611.

^ Prosapio, Valentina; Norton, Ian; De Marco, Iolanda (1 December 2017). "Optimization of freeze-drying using a Life Cycle Assessment approach: Strawberries' case study" (PDF). Journal of Cleaner Production. 168: 1171–1179. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.125. ISSN 0959-6526.

^ Ratti, C (2001). "Hot air and freeze-drying of high-value foods: a review". Journal of Food Engineering. 49 (4): 311–319. doi:10.1016/s0260-8774(00)00228-4.

^ Yildirim, Selçuk; Röcker, Bettina; Pettersen, Marit Kvalvåg; Nilsen-Nygaard, Julie; Ayhan, Zehra; Rutkaite, Ramune; Radusin, Tanja; Suminska, Patrycja; Marcos, Begonya; Coma, Véronique (January 2018). "Active Packaging Applications for Food: Active packaging applications for food…". Comprehensive Reviews in Food Science and Food Safety. 17 (1): 165–199. doi:10.1111/1541-4337.12322. hdl:20.500.12327/362. PMID 33350066.

^ L. Brody, Aaron; Strupinsky, E. P.; Kline, Lauri R. (2001). Active Packaging for Food Applications (1 ed.). CRC Press. ISBN 9780367397289.

^ Food Irradation – A technique for preserving and improving the safety of food, WHO, Geneva, 1991

^ World Health Organization. Wholesomeness of irradiated food. Geneva, Technical Report Series No. 659, 1981

^ World Health Organization. High-Dose Irradiation: Wholesomeness of Food Irradiated With Doses Above 10 kGy. Report of a Joint FAO/IAEA/WHO Study Group. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 1999. WHO Technical Report Series No. 890

^ Conley, S.T., What do consumers think about irradiated foods, FSIS Food Safety Review (Fall 1992), 11–15

^ Hauter, W. & Worth, M., Zapped! Irradiation and the Death of Food, Food & Water Watch Press, Washington, DC, 2008

^ NUCLEUS – Food Irradiation Clearances Archived 26 May 2008 at the Wayback Machine

^ Food irradiation – Position of ADA J Am Diet Assoc. 2000;100:246-253 Archived 16 February 2016 at the Wayback Machine

^ C.M. Deeley, M. Gao, R. Hunter, D.A.E. Ehlermann, The development of food irradiation in the Asia Pacific, the Americas and Europe; tutorial presented to the International Meeting on Radiation Processing, Kuala Lumpur, 2006. [1]

^ Brody, A.L., Zhuang, H., Han, J.H (2011). Modified atmosphere packaging for fresh-cut fruits and vegetables. West Sussex, UK: Blackwell Publishing Ltd. pp. 57–67. ISBN 978-0-8138-1274-8.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)

^ "Controlled Atmospheric Storage (CA) :: Washington State Apple Commission". Archived from the original on 14 March 2012. Retrieved 8 August 2013.

^ Djenane, D., Roncales, P. (2018). "Carbon monoxide in meat and fish packaging: advantages and limits". Foods. 7 (2): 12. doi:10.3390/foods7020012. PMC 5848116. PMID 29360803.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)

^ Fellows, P.J (2017). Food processing technology: principles and practice (4th ed). Duxford, UK: Woodhead Publishing. pp. 992–1001. ISBN 978-0-08-101907-8.

^ NWT magazine, December 2012

^ "High-Pressure Processing Keeps Food Safe". Military.com. Archived from the original on 2 February 2008. Retrieved 16 December 2008.

^ Aganovic, Kemal; Hertel, Christian; Vogel, Rudi. F.; Johne, Reimar; Schlüter, Oliver; Schwarzenbolz, Uwe; Jäger, Henry; Holzhauser, Thomas; Bergmair, Johannes; Roth, Angelika; Sevenich, Robert; Bandick, Niels; Kulling, Sabine E.; Knorr, Dietrich; Engel, Karl-Heinz; Heinz, Volker (July 2021). "Aspects of high hydrostatic pressure food processing: Perspectives on technology and food safety". Comprehensive Reviews in Food Science and Food Safety. 20 (4): 3225–3266. doi:10.1111/1541-4337.12763. PMID 34056857. S2CID 235256047.

^ a b c Ananou S, Maqueda M, Martínez-Bueno M and Valdivia E (2007) "Biopreservation, an ecological approach to improve the safety and shelf-life of foods" Archived 26 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine In: A. Méndez-Vilas (Ed.) Communicating Current Research and Educational Topics and Trends in Applied Microbiology, Formatex. ISBN 978-84-611-9423-0.

^ Yousef AE and Carolyn Carlstrom C (2003) Food microbiology: a laboratory manual Wiley, Page 226. ISBN 978-0-471-39105-0.

^ FAO: Preservation techniques Fisheries and aquaculture department, Rome. Updated 27 May 2005. Retrieved 14 March 2011.

^ Alzamora SM, Tapia MS and López-Malo A (2000) Minimally processed fruits and vegetables: fundamental aspects and applications Springer, p. 266. ISBN 978-0-8342-1672-3.

^ a b Alasalvar C (2010) Seafood Quality, Safety and Health Applications John Wiley and Sons, Page 203. ISBN 978-1-4051-8070-2.

^ Leistner I (2000) "Basic aspects of food preservation by hurdle technology" International Journal of Food Microbiology, 55:181–186.

^ Leistner L (1995) "Principles and applications of hurdle technology" In Gould GW (Ed.) New Methods of Food Preservation, Springer, pp. 1–21. ISBN 978-0-8342-1341-8.

^ Lee S (2004) "Microbial Safety of Pickled Fruits and Vegetables and Hurdle Technology" Archived 1 September 2011 at the Wayback Machine Internet Journal of Food Safety, 4: 21–32.


Sources
 This article incorporates text from a free content work.  Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 (license statement/permission). Text taken from The State of Food and Agriculture 2019. Moving forward on food loss and waste reduction, In brief​, 24, FAO, FAO.
References

Riddervold, Astri (1988). Food Conservation. Prospect. ISBN 978-0-907325-40-6.
Abakarov, Nunes. "Thermal food processing optimization: algorithms and software" (PDF). Food Engineering. Archived from the original (PDF) on 21 February 2014. Retrieved 22 October 2012.
Abakarov, Sushkov, Mascheroni. "Multi-criteria optimization and decision-making approach for improving of food engineering processes" (PDF). International Journal of Food Studies. Archived from the original (PDF) on 21 December 2018. Retrieved 9 June 2021.{{cite news}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)

Further reading
Marx de Salcedo, Anastacia (2015). Combat-ready Kitchen: How the U.S. military shapes the way you eat. New York: Current/Penguin. ISBN 9781101601648.
External links



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Food preservation.

A c. 1894 Gustav Hammer & Co. commercial cooking machinery catalogue.
Preserving foods ~ from the Clemson Extension Home and Garden Information Center
National Center for Home Food Preservation
BBC News Online – US army food... just add urine
Home Economics Archive: Tradition, Research, History (HEARTH) An e-book collection of over 1,000 classic books on home economics spanning 1850 to 1950, created by Cornell University's Mann Library.
Pobojewski, Sally (8 May 1995). "Underwater storage techniques preserved meat for early hunters". The University Record. University of Michigan. Archived from the original on 26 February 2019. Retrieved 28 September 2018.
vteFood preservation
Biopreservation
Canning
Cold chain
Curing
Drying
Fermentation
Freeze-drying
Freezing
Hurdle technology
Irradiation
Jamming
Jellying
Jugging
Modified atmosphere
Pascalization
Pickling
Potting
Confit
Potjevleesch
Salting
Smoking
Sugaring
Tyndallization
Vacuum packing

 Food portal
 Category: Food preservation

vteCooking techniquesList of cooking techniquesDryConduction
Dry roasting
Hot salt frying
Searing
Convection
Baking
Roasting (modern)
Smoking
Barbecue
Radiation
Charbroiler
Grilling (charbroiling)
Roasting (traditional)
Rotisserie
Toasting
WetHigh heat
Blanching
Boiling
Decoction
Parboiling
Shocking
Reduction
Low heat
Coddling
Creaming
Infusion
Poaching
Simmering
Slow cooking
Smothering
Steeping
Stewing
Indirect heat
Bain-marie (Double boiling)
Sous-vide
Double steaming
Steaming
Fat-basedHigh heat
Basting
Blackening
Browning
Frying
Deep frying
Pan frying
Shallow frying
Stir frying
Sautéing
Low heat
Gentle frying
Sweating
Mixed medium
Carryover cooking
Barbecuing
Braising
Caramelization
Deglazing
Flambé
Fricassee
Indirect grilling/Plank cooking
Stir frying (chao)
Device-based
Air frying
Microwaving
Pressure cooking
Pressure frying
Slow cooker
Thermal cooking
Non-heat
Aging
Brining
Curing
Drying
Fermenting
Juicing
Pickling
Purée
Salting
Souring
See also
List of cooking appliances
List of cooking vessels
Outdoor cooking
Food preparation
Food preservation
Food safety
 Food portal  Drink portal  Category  Commons  Cookbook  WikiProject
vteConsumer food safetyAdulterants, food contaminants
3-MCPD
Aldicarb
Antibiotic use in livestock
Cyanide
Formaldehyde
HGH controversies
Lead poisoning
Melamine
Mercury in fish
Sudan I
Food additives
Flavorings
Monosodium glutamate (MSG)
Salt
Sugar
High-fructose corn syrup
Intestinal parasites, parasitic disease
Amoebiasis
Anisakiasis
Cryptosporidiosis
Cyclosporiasis
Diphyllobothriasis
Enterobiasis
Fasciolopsiasis
Fasciolosis
Giardiasis
Gnathostomiasis
Paragonimiasis
Toxocariasis
Toxoplasmosis
Trichinosis
Trichuriasis
Microorganisms
Botulism
Campylobacter jejuni
Clostridium perfringens
Cronobacter
Enterovirus
Escherichia coli O104:H4
Escherichia coli O157:H7
Hepatitis A
Hepatitis E
Listeria
Norovirus
Rotavirus
Salmonella
Vibrio cholerae
Pesticides
Chlorpyrifos
DDT
Lindane
Malathion
Methamidophos
Preservatives
Benzoic acid
Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA)
Sodium benzoate
Sugar substitutes
Acesulfame potassium
Aspartame
controversy
Saccharin
Sodium cyclamate
Sorbitol
Sucralose
Toxins, poisons, environment pollution
Aflatoxin
Arsenic contamination of groundwater
Benzene in soft drinks
Bisphenol A
Dieldrin
Diethylstilbestrol
Dioxin
Mycotoxins
Nonylphenol
Shellfish poisoning
Food processing
4-Hydroxynonenal
Acid-hydrolyzed vegetable protein
Acrylamide
Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease
Food additives
Food irradiation
Heterocyclic amines
Modified starch
Nitrosamines
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon
Shortening
Trans fat
Water fluoridation controversy
Food contamination incidents
Devon colic
Swill milk scandal
Esing Bakery incident
1858 Bradford sweets poisoning
1900 English beer poisoning
Morinaga Milk arsenic poisoning incident
Minamata disease
1971 Iraq poison grain disaster
Toxic oil syndrome
1985 Austrian diethylene glycol wine scandal
United Kingdom BSE outbreak
Australian meat substitution scandal
Jack in the Box E. coli outbreak
1996 Odwalla E. coli outbreak
2006 North American E. coli outbreaks
ICA meat repackaging controversy
2008 Canada listeriosis outbreak
2008 Chinese milk scandal
2008 Irish pork crisis
2008 United States salmonellosis outbreak
2011 Germany E. coli outbreak
2011 United States listeriosis outbreak
Bihar school meal poisoning
2013 horse meat scandal
2015 Mozambique funeral beer poisoning
2017 Brazil Operation Weak Meat
2017–2018 South African listeriosis outbreak
2018 Australian strawberry contamination
Food safety incidents in China
Food safety incidents in Taiwan
Foodborne illness
outbreaks
death toll
United States
Regulation, standards, watchdogs
Acceptable daily intake
E number
Food labeling regulations
Food libel laws
Food safety in Australia
International Food Safety Network
ISO 22000
Nutrition facts label
Organic certification
Quality Assurance International
United Kingdom food information regulations
Institutions
Centre for Food Safety (Hong Kong)
European Food Safety Authority
Food and Drug Administration
Food Information and Control Agency (Spain)
Food Standards Agency (United Kingdom)
Institute for Food Safety and Health
International Food Safety Network
Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (South Korea)
Spanish Agency for Food Safety and Nutrition
Related topics
Curing (food preservation)
Food and drink prohibitions
Food fraud
Food marketing
Food politics
Food preservation
Food quality
Genetically modified food
Conspiracy theories

 Food portal  Drink portal
 Category
 Commons
 Cookbook
 WikiProject

Authority control databases National
Israel
United States
Czech Republic
Other
Historical Dictionary of Switzerland
NARA





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Food_preservation&oldid=1219933012"
Categories: Food preservationGarde mangerHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: multiple names: authors listArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pagesUse dmy dates from June 2020All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2021Articles with excerptsFree-content attributionFree content from FAOCommons category link is on WikidataArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with HDS identifiersArticles with NARA identifiers






 This page was last edited on 20 April 2024, at 19:34 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view













Toggle limited content width







