



Culinary tourism - Wikipedia




































Jump to content







Main menu





Main menu
move to sidebar
hide



		Navigation
	


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate





		Contribute
	


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file



















Search











Search





























Create account

Log in








Personal tools





 Create account Log in





		Pages for logged out editors learn more



ContributionsTalk




























Contents
move to sidebar
hide




(Top)





1Overview







2Economic impact







3Cooking classes







4Food tours







5Benefits of Culinary or food tourism







6See also







7References







8External links

















Toggle the table of contents







Culinary tourism



21 languages




AzərbaycancaCatalàEestiEspañolفارسیFrançaisBahasa IndonesiaItalianoLietuviųമലയാളംBahasa MelayuOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаPortuguêsРусскийSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiTagalogTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việt中文

Edit links











ArticleTalk





English

















ReadEditView history







Tools





Tools
move to sidebar
hide



		Actions
	


ReadEditView history





		General
	


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item





		Print/export
	


Download as PDFPrintable version





		In other projects
	


Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage

























From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Tourism with the aim of exploring the food
France is a country that has been strongly associated with culinary tourism with both international visitors as well as French citizens traveling to different parts of the country to sample local foods and wine.
Culinary tourism or food tourism or gastronomy tourism is the exploration of food as the purpose of tourism.[1] It is considered a vital component of the tourism experience.[2]  Dining out is common among tourists and "food is believed to rank alongside climate, accommodation, and scenery" in importance to tourists.[2]
Culinary tourism became prominent in 2001 after Erik Wolf, president of the World Food Travel Association, wrote a white paper on the subject.[3]


Overview[edit]
Pierogi in the Countryside Museum in Radom (Muzeum Wsi Radomskiej w Radomiu), Poland
Culinary or food tourism is the pursuit of unique and memorable eating and drinking experiences, both near and far.[4] Culinary tourism differs from agritourism in that culinary tourism is considered a subset of cultural tourism (cuisine is a manifestation of culture) whereas agritourism is considered a subset of rural tourism,[5] but culinary tourism and agritourism are inextricably linked, as the seeds of cuisine can be found in agriculture. Culinary/food tourism is not limited to gourmet food.[6]  Food tourism can be considered a subcategory of experiential travel.[citation needed]
While many cities, regions, or countries are known for their food, culinary tourism is not limited by food culture. Every tourist eats about three times a day, making food one of the fundamental economic drivers of tourism. Countries like Ireland, Peru, and Canada are making a significant investment in culinary tourism development and are seeing results with visitor spending and overnight stays rising as a result of food tourism promotion and product development.[7]
Food tourism includes activities such as taking cooking classes; going on food or drink tours; attending food and beverage festivals;[8] participating in specialty dining experiences;[3] shopping at specialty retail spaces; and visiting farms, markets, and producers.[citation needed]

Economic impact[edit]
The World Food Travel Association estimates that food and beverage expenses account for 15% to 35% of all tourism spending, depending on the affordability of the destination.[9] The WFTA lists possible food tourism benefits as including more visitors, more sales, more media attention, increased tax revenue, and greater community pride.[9]

Cooking classes[edit]
A growing area of culinary tourism is cooking classes. The formats vary from a short lesson lasting a few hours to full-day and multi-day courses. The focus for foreign tourists will usually be on the cuisine of the country they are visiting, whereas local tourists may be keen to experience cuisines new to them. Many cooking classes also include market tours to enhance the cultural experience.[10] Some cooking classes are held in local people's homes, allowing foreign tourists to catch a glimpse of what daily life and cuisine look like for those in the country they're visiting. Both the local hosts and foreign guests benefit from the cross-cultural experience.[citation needed]

Food tours[edit]
A home dinner in Bali, Indonesia (2016), made as part of a food tour
The oldest bar serving dough named pasztecik szczeciński in the center of Szczecin (Poland), a popular destination for tourists visiting the city. Pasztecik szczeciński is one of traditional dishes of the Western Pomerania.
Food tours vary by locale and by operator. They are common in major cities such as London,[11] Paris,[12][13] Rome,[14] Florence,[14] Toronto,[15] Kuala Lumpur,[16] and Barcelona.[17]
June 10, 2017, was the first annual National Food Tour Day, celebrating food tourism around the world.[18] The World Food Travel Association introduced World Food Travel Day on April 18, 2018,[19] as a way to put the spotlight on how and why we travel to experience the world's culinary cultures. It is designed to bring awareness to both consumers and trade, and support the Association's mission – to preserve and promote culinary cultures through hospitality and tourism. The day is celebrated all around the world every year on April 18.[citation needed]

Benefits of Culinary or food tourism[edit]
Food tourism[20] offers a multitude of benefits for travelers, including:

Opportunities to try unique and authentic dishes
Immersion into local or street food culture
History and Traditions Behind the Food We Eat
Supporting local economies by patronizing small businesses and food markets
See also[edit]
Cooking school
Foodie
Gourmet
Gastronomy
References[edit]


^ Long, Lucy (2004). Culinary Tourism. The University Press of Kentucky. p. 20. ISBN 9780813122922.

^ a b McKercher, Bob; Okumus, Fevzi; Okumus, Bendegul (2008). "Food Tourism as a Viable Market Segment: It's All How You Cook the Numbers!". Journal of Travel & Tourism Marketing. 25 (2): 137–148. doi:10.1080/10548400802402404. hdl:10397/12108. S2CID 153688186.

^ a b "What is Culinary Tourism?". Retrieved 2018-08-15.

^ "World Food Travel Association". World Food Travel Association. Retrieved October 8, 2017.

^ Wolf, Erik (2006). Culinary Tourism: The Hidden Harvest. Kendall/Hunt Publishing. ISBN 978-0-7575-2677-0.

^ Wolf, Erik (2001). "Culinary Tourism: The Hidden Harvest" white paper. World Food Travel Association. (currently out of print).

^ Wolf, Erik (2014). Have Fork Will Travel. CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform. ISBN 978-1490533995.

^ "How Culinary Tourism Is Becoming a Growing Trend in Travel". HuffPost Canada. 2015-06-17. Retrieved 2018-08-15.

^ a b "What Is Food Tourism?". World Food Travel Association. Archived from the original on 2014-01-28. Retrieved October 8, 2017.

^ "A Cooking Vacation". The Tribune India.

^ Lane, Megan (September 16, 2005). "A taste for gastro-tourism". BBC News.

^ "Discover the Paris food scene like a true Parisian". deliciousmagazine.co.uk. 2015-09-10.

^ "In Paris, 8 New Tours, From Art to Shopping". The New York Times. October 16, 2016.

^ a b Berger, Sarah (April 26, 2018). "These are the top food experiences in the world, according to TripAdvisor". CNBC.

^ Abel, Ann (March 13, 2017). "Eat the World: 9 Best Food Tours". Forbes. See also Culinary Adventure Co.

^ "Six Ways to Enjoy Kuala Lumpur". South China Morning Post. September 2, 2015.

^ Frayer, Lauren (August 18, 2015). "Food Tours Help Keep Barcelona's Mom-And-Pop Tapas Bars Alive". NPR.

^ "National Food Tour Day". Archived from the original on 2018-11-22. Retrieved 2017-10-14.

^ "World Food Travel Day". World Food Travel Association. Archived from the original on 2020-04-22.

^ "Food Travel😋: Best Definitive Guide of 2023". February 2023.


External links[edit]
World Food Travel Association
World Food Travel Market
Premium culinary tourism
vteTourismTypes
Accessible
Adventure
Agritourism
Alternative
Atomic
Backpacking
Beachgoing
Bicycle touring
Birth
Business
Culinary
Enotourism
Cultural
Archaeological
Film
Literary
Bookstore
Tolkien
Music
Pop-culture
Dark
Disaster
Holocaust
War
Domestic
Ecotourism
Shark
Experiential
Extreme
Fashion
Garden
Genealogy
Heritage
Identity
Geotourism
Industrial
International
Volunteering
Jungle
Justice
LGBT
Medical
MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences, Exhibitions)
Nautical
Orphanage
Recreational drug
Religious
Christian
Halal
Kosher
Pilgrimage
Rural
Science
Sensory
Slum
Smart
Space
Lunar
Sports
Sustainable
Urban
Virtual
Visiting friends and relatives
Wellness
Wildlife
Safari
Scuba
Yoga
Hospitality industry
Bed and breakfast
Boutique hotel
Convention center
Cruise ship
Destination spa
Front desk
Guest house
Guest ranch
Heuhotel
Homestay
Hospitality management studies
Hostel
Hotel
Manager
Inn
Motel
Pension
Referral chain
Resort
Hotel
Island
Seaside
Ski
Town
Restaurant
Terminology
College tour
Convention (meeting)
Destination marketing organization
Escorted tour
Excursion
Factory tour
Gift shop
Grand Tour
Holiday
Honeymoon
Hypermobility
Journey planner
Package tour
Passport
Perpetual traveler
Road trip
Roadside attraction
Souvenir
Staycation
Tour bus service
Tour guide
Tour operator
Tourism geography
Tourism minister
Tourism region
Tourist attraction
Tourist gateway
Tourist trap
Touron
Transport
Travel
Travel agency
Travel behavior
Travel document
Travel insurance
Travel medicine
Travel survey
Travel technology
Travel visa
Travel warning
Travel website
Vacation
Visitor center
Travel literature
Guide book
Outdoor literature
Tourism journals
Travel magazines
Wikivoyage
Trade associations
American Bus Association
American Hotel and Lodging Association
American Hotel & Lodging Educational Institute
BEST Education Network
Caribbean Tourism Organization
European Travel Commission
Historical Archive on Tourism
Life Beyond Tourism
Musement
South-East Asian Tourism Organisation
Tourism Radio
Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Report
World Federation of Travel Journalists and Writers
World Tourism Organization
World Tourism rankings
World Travel and Tourism Council
World Travel Monitor
Trade fairs and events
Akwaaba African Travel Market
Arabian Travel Market
Festival del Viaggio
FITUR
ITB Berlin
World Tourism Day
Issues
Heritage commodification
Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on tourism
Impacts of tourism
Leakage effect
Overtourism
Tourism improvement district
Tourist tax
Lists
Adjectival tourisms
Attractions
Bibliography
Casino hotels
Casinos
Cities by international visitors
Convention and exhibition centers
Cruise lines
Hotels
Largest
Motels
Passenger airlines
UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists
World Heritage Sites by country

 Category
 Commons
 WikiProject

Authority control databases: National 
Israel
Czech Republic





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Culinary_tourism&oldid=1217021680"
Categories: Food and drink appreciationTypes of tourismHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2021Articles with J9U identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers






 This page was last edited on 3 April 2024, at 10:16 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view













Toggle limited content width







